---
layout: post
title: "Strings"
category: C++
tags: [string,STL]
---
>The.C.Plus.Plus.Standard.Library.A.Tutorial.and.Reference,.Nicolai.M..Josuttis,.2ed,.AW,.2012.pdf

#### Chapter 13 Strings

Note that with C++98 the type of string literals (such as "hello") was changed into const char*. 

The following statement searches for the first occurrence of a period inside the string filename:
`string::size_type idx = filename.find(’.’);`

If the search fails, a special value is needed to return the failure. That value is **npos**, which is also defined by the string class. Thus, the following line checks whether the search for the period
failed:
`if (idx == string::npos)`

The type and value of npos are a big pitfall for the use of strings. Be very careful that you always use **string::size_type**, not int or unsigned, for the return type when you want to check the
return value of a find function. Otherwise, the comparison with string::npos might not work. 

###### 13.1.2 A Second Example: Extracting Words and Printing Them Backward
The second example extracts single words from standard input and prints the characters of each word in reverse order. The words are separated by the usual whitespaces (newline, space, and tab) and by
commas, periods, or semicolons:
``` C++
// string/string2.cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <string>
using namespace std;
int main (int argc, char** argv)
{
	const string delims(" \t,.;");
	string line;
	//for every line read successfully
	while (getline(cin,line)) {
	string::size_type begIdx, endIdx;
	//search beginning ofthe first word
	begIdx = line.find_first_not_of(delims);
	//while beginning ofa word found
	while (begIdx != string::npos) {
	//search end ofthe actual word
	endIdx = line.find_first_of (delims, begIdx);
	if (endIdx == string::npos) {
	//end ofword is end ofline
	endIdx = line.length();
	}
	//print characters in reverse order
	for (int i=endIdx-1; i>=static_cast<int>(begIdx); --i) {
	cout << line[i];
	}
	cout << ’ ’;
	//search beginning ofthe next word
	begIdx = line.find_first_not_of (delims, endIdx);
	}
	cout << endl;
	}
}

```

Note that for operator [ ] , the number of characters is a valid index, returning a character representing the end of the string. This end-of-string character is initialized by the default constructor of
the character type (’\0’ for class string):
`string s; s[s.length()] //yields ’\0’ `

There are three possible ways to convert the contents of the string into a raw array of characters or C-string:

1. data() and c_str() return the contents of the string as an array of characters. The array
includes the end-of-string character at position [size()] , so for strings, the result is a valid
C-string including ’\0’ .

Note that before C++11, the return type of data() was not a valid C-string, because no ’\0’
character was guaranteed to get appended.

2. copy() copies the contents of the string into a character array provided by the caller. An ’\0’
character is not appended.